#49 update docs with new resource requirements (#50)
cloudogu/dogu-development-docs: docs/important/relevant_functionalities_en.md

This chapter describes features that integrate Dogus deeper into the Cloudogu EcoSystem and make them uniformly administrable.

### Resource requirements

The resource requirements for a Dogu can be applied to the following resources:

* Memory (RAM)
* Swap
* CPU cores
* Ephemeral storage

A distinction is made between resource requests and limits:

- **Resource Requests:** Specify the minimum resources (CPU cores, memory, ephemeral storage) required by a dogu for it to be functional.

>   In the multinode EcoSystem, the Kubernetes scheduler ensures that the Dogu is started on a node with sufficient resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  In the Multinode-EcoSystem, the Kubernetes scheduler ensures that the Dogu is started on a node with sufficient resources.
```
Spelling should be consistent across this document.

- **Resource Limits:** Specify the maximum amount of resources a Dogu is allowed to use.

#### Memory

Memory limits can be used to restrict the memory consumption (RAM) of Dogus.

If a Dogu exceeds its memory limit, the largest process in the container is terminated.
This is usually the main process of the Dogus and causes the container to be restarted.
If no value is set for the memory limit, this will not happen.

Memory requests can be used to specify the minimum memory requirement for Dogus to be fully functional.

> **Caution!**

Reviewer: I don't think the word caution is really fitting here. Maybe we can go with important instead?
```suggestion
**Important:**
```

> Memory-Requests are only used in the Multinode-EcoSystem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Memory-Requests are only applied in the Multinode-EcoSystem.
```

#### Swap

Swap limits can be used to restrict the memory consumption (swap space) of Dogus.

If a Dogu exceeds its swap limit, the largest process in the container is terminated.
This is usually the main process of the Dogus and causes the container to be restarted.
If no value is set on swap limiting, it will not take place.
For swap limiting `0b` is the default value and thus does not provide swap.

> **Caution!**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Important:**
```

> Swap limits are only applied in the Singlenode-EcoSystem!

Reviewer: Maybe we invert this sentence since we only know that it doesn't work on Kubernetes. But maybe it does work on the next big thing.
```suggestion
Swap limits are **NOT** applied in the Multinode-EcoSystem!
```

##### Preparation of the storage limits in the host

In order for the ClouDogu EcoSystem host to limit memory **and** swap, the following settings must be made beforehand:
1. open the file `/etc/default/grub`.
2. the following value must be added to the variable `GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT`:
   `cgroup_enable=memory swapaccount=1`.
3. save the changes
4. execute the command `sudo update-grub` or `sudo update-bootloader --refresh`.
5. reboot the machine

> **Caution!**

Reviewer: Let's go with the previous term 'Warning here':
```suggestion
**Warning!**
```

The above activation with `cgroup_enable=memory swapaccount=1` is expected to result in a memory overhead of 1% and a performance penalty of 10% even if Docker is not running.

#### CPU cores

CPU limits can be used to restrict the maximum CPU cores available to Dogus.
When the CPU cores limit is exceeded, the container runtime throttles the available CPU resources for the container.

CPU requests can be used to specify the minimum CPU cores required for a Dogu to be fully functional.

> **Caution!**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Important:**
```

CPU limits and requests are only applied in the Multinode-EcoSystem.

#### Ephemeral-Storage

Ephemeral storage limits can be used to limit the maximum available ephemeral storage
(see [Kubernetes-Ephemeral-Storage](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/#local-ephemeral-storage))
of Dogus.
When the limit is exceeded, the container is restarted.

Ephemeral storage requests can be used to specify the minimum ephemeral storage required for a Dogu to be fully functional.

> **Caution!**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Important:**
```

- Key for limit: `config/<DOGU_NAME>/container_config/cpu_core_limit`
- Optional
- Description: Sets the CPU resource request of the dogus.
- Format:
  See https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/#resource-units-in-kubernetes

**Ephemeral-Storage**

- Key for request: `config/<DOGU_NAME>/container_config/storage_request`
- Key for limit: `config/<DOGU_NAME>/container_config/storage_limit`
- Optional
- Description: Sets the ephemeral storage resource requirement of the Dogus.
- Format: The configurable values for the keys are each a string of the form `<number value><unit>` and describe the maximum amount of storage that can be used by the Dogu.
  Note here that there must be no space between the numeric value and the unit.
  Available units are `b`, `k`, `m` and `g` (for byte, kibibyte, mebibyte and gibibyte).

  
Setting the values can be done in the following ways:
- `doguctl config container_config/memory_limit 1g`
- `cesapp edit-config <doguname>` (only from the host)
- `etcdctl set /config/<doguname>/container_config/memory_limit "1g"` (only from the host)

##### Apply configured resource requests

> To apply the limits in the singelnode EcoSystem, the Dogu must be recreated (`cesapp recreate <doguname>`) and then restarted (`cesapp start <doguname>`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To apply the limits in the Singlenode-EcoSystem, the Dogu must be recreated (`cesapp recreate <doguname>`) and then restarted (`cesapp start <doguname>`).
```

> In the multinode EcoSystem, the global etcd key `config/_global/sync_resource_requirements` must be created/modified/deleted. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the Multinode-EcoSystem, the global etcd key `config/_global/sync_resource_requirements` must be created/modified/deleted. 
```
